.NET 10 Preview 1 - Release Notes (#9708)
dotnet/core: release-notes/10.0/preview/preview1/10.0.0-preview.1.md

```console
$ dotnet --version
10.0.100-preview.1.XXXXX.X
```

## .NET Multi-Platform App UI (MAUI) Workload Downloads

 After installing the .NET SDK, you can install .NET MAUI using the `dotnet workload install` command:

 ```console
 dotnet workload install maui
 ```

 The following workloads are also available to install individually:

 ```console
 dotnet workload install android
 dotnet workload install ios
 dotnet workload install maccatalyst
 dotnet workload install macos
 dotnet workload install tvos
 ```

## Container Images

[.NET container images](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.md) have been updated for this release. The [.NET container samples](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/samples/README.md) show various ways to use .NET container images.

The following repos have been updated:

- [dotnet/sdk](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.sdk.md): .NET SDK
- [dotnet/aspnet](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.aspnet.md): ASP.NET Core Runtime
- [dotnet/runtime](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.runtime.md): .NET Runtime

> - [dotnet/runtime-deps](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.runtime.md): .NET Runtime Dependencies

Reviewer: @richlander @MichaelSimons thoughts on adding `docker pull` commands inline here?

Reviewer 2: Can you illustrate what you are thinking (e.g. for just one repo)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [dotnet/sdk](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.sdk.md)
  - `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview`
- [dotnet/aspnet](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.aspnet.md)
  - `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspnet:10.0-preview`
- [dotnet/runtime](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.runtime.md)
  - `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/runtime:10.0-preview`
- [dotnet/runtime-deps](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.runtime.md)
  - `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/runtime-deps:10.0-preview`
```

Author: @MichaelSimons good with this?

## Visual Studio Compatibility

> .NET 10 is compatible with  [Visual Studio 17.XX latest preview](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com) Users will have to [download](https://get.dot.net/10) and install the .NET 10 runtime/sdk standalone. Visual Studio for Mac is currently not supported for .NET 10.0 Preview releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.NET 10 is compatible with  [Visual Studio 17.14 latest preview](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com) Users will have to [download](https://get.dot.net/10) and install the .NET 10 runtime/sdk standalone.

```
Visual Studio for Mac is out of support now, we should remove for the .NET 10 cycle. Should we include C# Dev Kit + VS Code now?

 dotnet workload install maccatalyst
 dotnet workload install macos
 dotnet workload install tvos
 ```

## Docker Images

The [.NET Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet) have been updated for this release. The [.NET Docker samples](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/samples/README.md) show various ways to use .NET and Docker together.

The following repos have been updated.

- [dotnet/sdk](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.sdk.md): .NET SDK
- [dotnet/aspnet](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.aspnet.md): ASP.NET Core Runtime
- [dotnet/runtime](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.runtime.md): .NET Runtime
- [dotnet/runtime-deps](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.runtime.md): .NET Runtime Dependencies
- [dotnet/monitor](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.monitor.md): .NET Monitor
- [dotnet/monitor/base](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.monitor-base.md): .NET Monitor Base
- [dotnet/samples](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.samples.md): .NET Samples

## Visual Studio Compatibility

> .NET 10 is compatible with  [Visual Studio 17.XX latest preview](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com) Users will have to [download](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/9.0) and install the .NET 10 runtime/sdk standalone. Visual Studio for Mac is currently not supported for .NET 10.0 Preview releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.NET 10 is compatible with  [Visual Studio 17.XX latest preview](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com) Users will have to [download](https://get.dot.net/10) and install the .NET 10 runtime/sdk standalone. Visual Studio for Mac is currently not supported for .NET 10.0 Preview releases.

```

 dotnet workload install maccatalyst
 dotnet workload install macos
 dotnet workload install tvos
 ```

## Docker Images

The [.NET Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-dotnet) have been updated for this release. The [.NET Docker samples](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/samples/README.md) show various ways to use .NET and Docker together.

The following repos have been updated.

- [dotnet/sdk](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.sdk.md): .NET SDK
- [dotnet/aspnet](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.aspnet.md): ASP.NET Core Runtime
- [dotnet/runtime](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.runtime.md): .NET Runtime
- [dotnet/runtime-deps](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.runtime.md): .NET Runtime Dependencies
- [dotnet/monitor](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.monitor.md): .NET Monitor
- [dotnet/monitor/base](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.monitor-base.md): .NET Monitor Base
- [dotnet/samples](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/README.samples.md): .NET Samples

## Visual Studio Compatibility

> .NET 10 is compatible with  [Visual Studio 17.XX latest preview](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com) Users will have to [download](https://get.dot.net/10) and install the .NET 10 runtime/sdk standalone. Visual Studio for Mac is currently not supported for .NET 10.0 Preview releases.
> 
> 
> ## Feedback

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.NET 10 is compatible with  [Visual Studio 17.XX latest preview](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com) Users will have to [download](https://get.dot.net/10) and install the .NET 10 runtime/sdk standalone. Visual Studio for Mac is currently not supported for .NET 10.0 Preview releases.

## Feedback

```
